## AssertJ examples

AssertJ examples is divided in two : assertions-examples (core, guava and joda assertions) and AssertJ swing modules.

The **master** branch contains examples with the latest released version of AssertJ modules (for Java 8).

There are several branches that contain examples for the ongoing development versions of AssertJ modules. That means you have to build the according AssertJ modules by your own before new features compile. The following table contains these special branches that are merged into the master each time the module is released.

| Branch                        | Modules                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| with-latest-snapshot-versions | Core 3.x for Java 8 |
| with-latest-swing-snapshot    | Swing                                      |


### AssertJ assertions examples

**assertj-examples/assertions-examples** contains executable AssertJ assertions examples that you can run as JUnit tests.
Please have a look at **[assertions examples sources](assertions-examples/src/test/java/org/assertj/examples)**.

The **master** branch contains examples with the latest released version of AssertJ modules for Java 8, similarly the **java-7** branch contains examples of AssertJ modules for Java 7.
You should be able to build those two branches with `mvn clean install` command.

In your IDE, add `src/test/generated-assertions` to the project java test sources otherwise you will have errors/missing classes.
This is the folder where custom assertions classes are generated by default by the maven assertions generator plugin. 
Note that Intellij Idea wrongly adds `src/test/generated-assertions` to the production sources when it should be added the **test sources**, you will have to fix that in your module/project settings. 

Building **with-latest-snapshot-versions** is a little more complicated :
- you need to build the needed SNAPSHOT dependencies before - most probably assertj-core and maybe other modules. 
- run `mvn clean install` in `assertj-examples/assertions-examples`.
- In your IDE, add `src/test/generated-assertions` to the project java sources if you IDE shows errors/missing classes.  

### AssertJ-Swing examples

The **master** branch contains examples with the latest released version of AssertJ modules => you should be able to build it with mvn clean install command.

**assertj-swing-aut** contains the AUT (application under test) that is tested by the examples.

**assertj-swing-junit-examples** contains executable AssertJ-Swing examples that you can inspect and run as JUnit tests.
Please have a look at **[swing-junit-examples sources](assertj-swing-junit-examples/src/test/java/org/assertj/swing/junit/examples)**.

**assertj-swing-testng-examples** contains executable AssertJ-Swing examples that you can inspect and run as TestNG tests.
Please have a look at **[swing-testng-examples sources](assertj-swing-testng-examples/src/test/java/org/assertj/swing/testng/examples)**.


## Contributing

Contributing is easy, only two rules to follow : 
* Checkout the snapshot branch corresponding to your examples, it should be `with-latest-snapshot-versions` most of the time (not master!) 
* Use **[AssertJ code Eclipse formatting preferences](https://github.com/joel-costigliola/assertj-core/blob/master/src/ide-support/assertj-eclipse-formatter.xml)** (for Idea users, it is possible to import it)
* Add FUN examples ! ;-)

Thanks !
